[MUSIC PLAYING]
NARRATOR: There will come
a time when a blue star
would appear in the sky.
It's light will shatter
the darkness of the night.
This blue star
will bring a wind,
a wine like that
which has not been
seen on Earth in a long time.
The blue star will bring a fire.
This fire will be so bright
and hot that it will transform
the matter of the universe.
The blue light from this
star is a signal that
shall end the fourth world.
The blue star will
cause the oceans
to rise and topple upon the
land, flooding the world.
All living things will perish
in this great catastrophe.
A people with no memory of the
past are a people with amnesia.
It may be that our planet's
legends and myths are really
of forgotten memory, a memory
so terrible that amnesia
may have been the only cure.
Hello.
I'm Johana Lambert.
Welcome to "Earth Under Fire."
Almost every culture
preserves myths describing
humanity's endurance of past
events involving major loss
of life on a global scale.
Our ancestors tell us of
endless days of darkness,
of temperatures high enough
to ignite wooded hills,
of vast deluges covering all
but a few mountain peaks.
Today, we consider these
stories as myths, legends,
or highly imaginative tales.
But could they be true?
What if there really
was a gigantic disaster?
Is it possible that an
ancient advanced civilization
may have left a message for
us about this catastrophe?
Astrology was once considered
an advanced science.
Today, it is relegated to
the fringes of our reality,
yet there appears
to be another side
to astrology that
only now, aided
by the advancement of
science, are we in a position
to fully understand.
Regardless of whether one
believes that planetary energy
shape human events, many
may be surprised to learn
that astrology symbols
convey a highly
sophisticated astronomical
and geological message.
This message was
first discovered
by Dr. Paul LaViolette.
In his most recent work,
"Earth Under Fire,"
he has utilized ancient
celestial and astrological
symbolism, as well as
astrophysics, to decipher
this message,
which was evidently
left by ancient astronomers
for future generations.
This message concerns a
cosmological disaster, perhaps
the worst to ever have afflicted
the human race, a disaster
which, according
to Dr. LaViolette,
was initiated by an explosion
of our galactic core.
[EXPLOSION]
Moreover, this ancient message
warns that this tragedy could
happen again, and,
indeed, that it
may occur at vast
periodic intervals
throughout the cosmic
history of the earth.
Of the hundreds of millions of
stars that make up our galaxy,
those orbiting
closest to its center,
congregate into a
dense, spherical mass
called the nuclear bulge.
Further out, stars orbiting
the galactic center congregate
into a number of gaseous
star-studded spiral arms that
extend tens of
thousands of light years
outward from the center bulge
along its equatorial plane.
From a great distance,
our galactic homeland
would look like an enormous
glittering pinwheel.
Our solar system is
situated about 23,000 light
years from the galactic center.
Our sun and the earth
lie at the fringe
of one of its spiral arms.
On a clear night, the stars
forming the galaxy's spiral
disc may be seen stretching
across the heavens
as a faintly luminous band of
light known as the Milky Way.
Although the outline of
the galaxy's spiral arm
is visible to the naked
eye, the galactic center
itself is hidden from view.
The galactic center only becomes
visible during a galactic core
outburst.
Even with the aid of
optical telescopes,
the center of the galaxy
cannot be seen directly due
to the dense clouds of cosmic
dust that concentrate along
the galaxy's equatorial plane.
Even though we can't see
the center of the galaxy,
apparently, the authors of the
zodiac knew of its location.
The signs for each of
the 12 constellations
have been around
since ancient times.
The glyphs for Scorpio
and Sagittarius
are the only ones among
the zodiacal signs
to incorporate arrows, and
both are adjacent in sequence.
When arranged to reflect the way
these constellations actually
appear in the sky, these
two arrows or pointers
are seen to face one another,
as if they were indicating
some position in the sky.
In fact, they appear to
be intentionally pointing
out the location
of galactic center.
It may, therefore, be
far from coincidental
that amongst the
ancient characters
assigned to play specific
roles in the zodiac,
that the sign Sagittarius
is portrayed as an archer,
and he is aiming
his arrow almost
directly at galactic center.
We also find that the
tail of the scorpion
is very near galactic center.
In fact, two of the stars that
make up the scorpion's tail--
Lambda Scorpio and
Epsilon Scorpio--
are named Shaula and Lesath
in Arabian star charts.
Both of these mean "distinct."
When lines are added to
connect these three tail stars
with the galactic center,
Scorpio takes on the shape
of an upward arching arrow.
Since the galactic center can at
times release lethal outbursts
of cosmic ray particles,
such deadly symbolism
is quite appropriate.
However, the archer
in Sagittarius
is not pointing
his arrow directly
at the center of our galaxy.
If we lead a trajectory
in the direction
that Sagittarius is
presently aiming his arrow,
we find that it misses
the galactic center
by 2.5 degrees of longitude.
Using a computer-aided
star map, we
can see that there
was a time when
Sagittarius aimed
his arrow much closer
to the center of our galaxy.
Looking at the
position of these stars
as they were an
earlier times, we
find that Sagittarius
was aiming directly
at the heart of the
scorpion about 16,000
years ago, or about 14,000 BC.
Such a precise indication of
the galactic center's location
is quite astounding.
It isn't what we would usually
attribute to the abilities
of so-called Stone Age man.
As we noted earlier, the
galactic center's position
is heavily obscured
by interstellar dust,
and, therefore, is
not directly visible
with optical telescopes.
Harlow Shapley, working with
the 60-inch telescope at Mount
Wilson above Los
Angeles in 1917,
determined the near
position of the location
of the center of the galaxy.
He was off the mark
by 3.3 degrees of arc.
However, the ancient
Sagittarius constellation
indicates the galactic center
location within accuracy
eight times better than
Shapley's estimate.
The zodiac's message indicates
that on this trajectory date
a galactic center energy
creation event became visible
and began to have a
catastrophic effect
on our planet, the Earth.
Scientists found that the
core of an active galaxy
can shine brighter
than the galaxy itself.
That is, cosmic ray
electrons streaking away
from the galactic core
close to the speed of light
produce a bluish
white light so bright
that it masks the light from
the galaxy's spiral arms
and surrounding mass of stars.
When in an active
phase such as this,
spiral galaxies are
a called Seyfert
galaxies, named after their
discoverer, Carl Seyfert.
Astronomical surveys show
that about one spiral galaxy
out of every five
to seven presently
exhibits Seyfert-like
characteristics.
On photographic plates, however,
the intensity of the outbursts
can be sufficiently subdued so
that the galaxy's spiral arms
can be distinguished,
affirming that those
luminous outbursts
are, indeed, spiral
galaxies in an active phase.
Astronomers have come to realize
that galactic core explosions
occur in all spiral
galaxies, even our own,
and although the
majority of galaxies
have a normal appearance with
no sign of major core activity,
they are simply galaxies
whose cores happen
to be in their quiescent phase.
The statistics
suggest that a galaxy
core resides in the quiescent
phase about 80% to 85%
of the time.
It spends the other 15% to 20%
of its time in an active state
with eruptive episodes
lasting from hundreds
to several thousands of years.
There is abundant evidence
that the core of our galaxy
has undergone a major explosion
episode comparable to those
we observe taking place
in Seyfert galaxies
throughout the universe.
Dr. Paul LaViolette's research
demonstrates that the zodiac
or cryptogram may have
been devised as an attempt
to communicate to
future generations
the knowledge of this
pervasive galactical cycle.
In light of Dr.
LaViolette's work,
we're able to ask ourselves some
astounding questions, such as,
were the ancients who
intuited the symbolic content
of celestial and
zodiacal patents
attempting to tell us something?
NARRATOR: Many believe that
ancient peoples were ignorant
of the past and of the truth,
but what if their myths are
a warning to the
people of the future
about an event, a
great catastrophe
that occurred a long time ago?
What if the memory of this
event shaped the lives
and thoughts of all
those who came after it?
What if this memory is the real
significance behind humanity's
many mythologies?
The Hopi people of North
America have a legend
that there were
three other worlds
before this, the present world.
Each of these worlds
was terminated
by a great catastrophe.
The Hopi believe
that this ending
will be heralded by the
appearance of Saquasohuh,
the blue star spirit.
Saquasohuh will shine
brighter than all
of the stars in the heavens.
These legends promise that one
day the present world will also
come to an end, and although the
blue star spirit brings forth
the end of this
world, she also plants
the seeds for the next one.
Since the cause of
distant exploding galaxies
are observed to have a
bright blue white star-like
appearance, it is
reasonable to expect
that the core of our own galaxy
would have a similar appearance
during its explosive stage.
The legendary appearance
of a blue star
could be referring to an
explosion of our galaxy's core.
Since we cannot see the galactic
core because of intervening
dust clouds, most of the blue
light that ancient viewers
would have seen from a
galactic core explosion
would have come from
the cosmic ray electrons
emitted from the core.
During that 23,000 light
year journey to us,
this advancing army
of torchbearers
would have been continuously
generating and beaming
forward a bluish light.
It would have appeared
suddenly without warning
and would have remained in
the sky for several hundred
to several thousand years.
During this ancient
galactic superwave passage,
the star-studded sky that
we are used to seeing
would have been transformed
into a ghostly scene
of various shaped, amorphous
nebulae and dust clouds
overlying one another.
The entire Scorpio-Sagittarius
region would have
taken on an ominous appearance.
Within minutes of the
appearance of the blue star,
superwave cosmic
rays would have begun
impacting the solar system's
magnetic field sheath.
This would have caused a network
to form of faintly luminous
cobweb-like filaments
stretching outward from the sky
from the vicinity
of the blue star.
Perhaps the most
frightening phenomenon
to occur in this early stage
would be the prompt arrival
of the electromagnetic
pulse and perhaps
shortly afterward, the
onslaught of a giant gravity
wave with its ensuing
crustal torque,
earthquakes, and
volcanic eruptions.
Legends from various
cultures around the world
describe the occurrence of
terrible natural distress
affecting the entire globe.
The Popol Vuh of the Mayan
Indians, the [INAUDIBLE],
or the sacred Zoroastrian texts,
the [INAUDIBLE] from China,
the sacred Buddhist
text, the Visuddhimagga,
the Bhagavata Purana text from
India, the myth of Phaeton
and the sun chariot
from Greece all
speak of a similar catastrophe.
While each of these is
unique in its own way,
they all share
certain common themes.
One such theme concerns
a period of darkness that
lasts for many generations and
during which the sun, moon,
and stars become dim
or even disappear
from view behind dark
clouds in the heavens.
Astronomical
observations indicate
that our solar system is
surrounded by a cloud of dust
and frozen cometary debris.
Normally, the solar wind
keeps the solar system
free of much of this dust.
This outward breeze or wind
of ionized hydrogen and helium
continually emitted by the sun
exerts a pressure on these dust
particles, keeping them at bay.
However, upon its arrival, a
superwave cosmic ray volley
would have countered the
solar winds' expelling action
and would have begun to
push this cosmic dust back
into the solar system.
Sufficiently large amounts of
this dust in the solar system
could have reduced or
entirely blocked light
coming from the sun,
moon, and the stars,
accounting for the
legendary references
to the darkening of the sky.
In several places,
the Old Testament
refers to a rapidly approaching
attack which brings darkness.
NARRATOR: The Earth
shall quake before them.
The heavens shall tremble.
The sun and the
moon shall be dark,
and the stars shall
withdraw their shining.
The sun shall be turned
to darkness and the moon
to blood before the great and
terrible day of the Lord come.
Perhaps the Old Testament's
portrayal of the Lord
as an angry father who inflicts
cosmic catastrophe on mankind
to punish his sins originated
during the last ice age
when humanity
endured what may have
been the worst global disaster
of its entire history.
Several hundred years
after the first appearance
of the blue star,
Earth observers
would have become aware of
lighting effects resulting
from the superwave's
passage through the galaxy's
central bulge.
Electromagnetic radiation called
synchrotron radiation emitted
by the superwave's cosmic
rays would have illuminated
the dense gas clouds
in the galaxy's
nucleus to create
an oval luminous
form around the blue star.
This apparition would
have been shaped somewhat
like this infrared map image.
Usually, dense clouds of
dust obscure the light
coming from this region.
However, during its
bright active phase,
sunlight would have penetrated.
This frightening spectacle
may have appeared
to ancient inhabitants as
the gigantic punishing eye
in the sky.
Its iris would have
a brilliant light
emanating from its central
point, the blue star.
A superwave event accompanied
by an illumination of this sort
may have spawned ancient
myths about mankind being
punished by a great cosmic eye.
One ancient Egyptian myth
tells how Atum Re, the creator,
sent his eye to
inflict punishment
upon an earlier race of man.
In one version of the
myth, the god Atum
gathers together
the gods of creation
to his heavenly central palace.
The god Nun addresses Atum Re.
NARRATOR: Let your eye
be set out to seize those
who are plotting against you.
Of itself, the eye is not
strong enough to destroy them.
Let it descend upon
them as Hathor.
JOHANA LAMBERT:
According to this myth,
the destruction of
mankind was carried
out by Hathor, the cowheaded
goddess of flooding waters.
Hathor's departure from Atum's
heavenly palace on her mission
to slay mankind would represent
the superwave's ominous journey
from the galactic center to
wreak havoc upon the Earth.
But is there any
scientific proof that such
a disaster has occurred?
Dr. Paul LaViolette
first pondered the idea
of a galactic superwave in
1979 while studying at Portland
State University, and he
became determined to find
an answer to the question.
After discovering and
decoding a hidden cipher
in zodiacal symbology, he began
developing a complete theory
concerning the
outbursts which occur
at the center of the Milky Way.
Dr. LaViolette knew that if a
galactic superwave had begun
to arrive some
15,860 years ago, it
should have pushed cosmic
dust into the solar system.
Wondering if there
was a good way
to check the geological
record to see if increased
amounts of cosmic dust had
entered the Earth's atmosphere
during the last ice age, he
realized that the best place
to look for such evidence would
be in the earth's polar ice
record.
Very early on, I realized that
if a cosmic ray volley had come
from the direction of
the galactic center,
it would have had sufficient
pressure to push forward
interstellar dust particles,
and if sufficient amounts
of this dust were
around the solar system,
it would've been
carried inward and would
enter the Earth's environment.
It would've been coming
through the Earth's atmosphere
and falling along with
snows at that time
and become imprisoned
in the ice caps.
And today, we should
find that dust,
if it was falling at that time,
in ice hundreds of meters down.
JOHANA LAMBERT: Dr. LaViolette
analyzed eight Greenland ice
core samples that
ranged from 35,000
to 73,000 years old and dated
from the first half of the ice
age.
PAUL LAVIOLETTE: To
check for this dust,
the best way is to look
for elements like iridium
and nickel, which are more
abundant in extraterrestrial
material, and the
technique used for this is
a neutron activation analysis.
Iridium, particularly,
is a good element,
because it's thousands
of times more
abundant in
extraterrestrial material
than in earth material.
It's like gold or platinum--
very rare on Earth,
but you find large amounts
in extraterrestrial material,
so this was a particularly
good indicator.
Also, ice is a
particularly good place
to look for the cosmic dust,
because you get less influx
of dust from terrestrial
sources like wind-blown dust,
so you'd expect cosmic dust
to be a higher percentage.
Plus, ice is such that
your deposits of this dust
are frozen.
They're not perturbed
by geologic processes
as much as you'd find, for
example, in ocean sediments.
JOHANA LAMBERT: Todd Hinkley
is a geologist with the US
Geological Survey in Colorado.
Hinkley has examined
the work of LaViolette,
especially his work that
involved ice core drillings.
I think it's very
appropriate that Paul
should look to ice cores.
The polar ice sheets that still
cover large areas at the ends
of our planet do represent a
valuable repository of what
has fallen onto them out of
the atmosphere for a very
long time-- in some cases, up to
several hundred thousand years.
Especially in the ice
sheet in Greenland,
the layers are discernible
of the preservation that
represent individual years.
As we go deeper or
farther back in time,
these are compressed
and thinner,
but still, we can tell
exactly where we are in time,
because these polar ice
sheets every year save
and preserve a layer
of ice that can
be reliably located and dated.
I found that six out of the
eight ice age samples I tested
contained much higher
levels of iridium and nickel
than current ice and snow.
So I concluded that cosmic dust
must have been entering Earth's
atmosphere at a much faster
rate and accumulating
on the Earth's surface much
faster then than it does today.
JOHANA LAMBERT: Most
of the interstellar
dust from this ancient
event has disappeared
from the solar system.
Today, only faint traces of it
can be seen orbiting the sun.
Most of it is concentrated
toward the ecliptic plane,
and astronomers call
this the zodiacal cloud.
Astronomers have
presumed that much
of the dust in this portion
of the zodiacal dust cloud
has originated from
comets and asteroids.
However, they find that such
sources cannot supply dust fast
enough to account
for all of the dust
amassed in the zodiacal cloud.
PAUL LAVIOLETTE: Data received
in 1992 from the Ulysses
spacecraft provided
further confirmation
that the dust in
the zodiacal belt
was actually of
interstellar origin.
Particle counters on
board the spacecraft
began picking up micrometeorites
coming from the direction
of the galactic center.
In other words, dust entering
from outside the solar system.
This greatly surprised
the Ulysses science team,
because up until then, they
expected that most of this dust
should be from
asteroids and comets
circulating within
the solar system.
So this provided further
confirmation for a prediction
I had made back in the '80s.
In fact, just as Dr.
LaViolette had predicted,
they found that
this material was
entering the solar
system from the direction
of galactic center.
Consequently, the notion that
interstellar cosmic dust may
have entered our solar
system in large amounts
and affected the earth's climate
in relatively recent times
has now become quite plausible.
Inspired by Dr. LaViolette's
ice age cosmic dust discoveries,
researchers at
other universities
have begun to carry out
their own polarized studies
to assess the iridium and
nickel content of ancient ice.
Another piece of
evidence suggesting
that the solar system has
experienced a recent superwave
event comes from the
observations of the rings
around the outer planets.
From telescope
observations, astronomers
have long known that
Saturn was surrounded
by six concentric rings.
These were presumed to consist
of relatively homogeneous
distributions of rock and ice.
However, closeup pictures taken
by Voyager 1 and 2 spacecraft
revealed that each
of these rings
consists of hundreds
of thousands
of fine ringlets resembling the
grooves of a phonograph record.
This discovery was perplexing,
because it was thought
that Saturn's rings are
millions of years old
and that any irregularities
should have by now become
smoothed out and homogenized.
In trying to explain
why they found
these intricate
patternings, scientists
overlooked the most
obvious, which was simply
that the rings are
young and haven't
had a chance to smooth out.
As we have mentioned, numerous
cultures around the world
preserve legends of
a vast conflagration
that swept the planet long ago.
These various tales
of a catastrophe
may be seen to have a reasonable
scientific explanation
when understood in
the context of the
galactic superwave phenomena.
NARRATOR: There
will be no warning
when this, the
fourth world, will
be shattered by the great fire.
The myths say that
the fourth world
will be destroyed in
order for the next world,
the fifth world, to begin.
These are the
prophecies that have
been handed down from generation
to generation among the Hopi.
They are considered
the most important
prophecies of these people.
The Hopi prophecies say that
with the coming of Saquasohuh,
the fourth world
will come to an end.
PAUL LAVIOLETTE: It is
well known in astronomy
that cosmic dust and gas falling
on to the surface of a star
will convert its acquired
kinetic energy into heat
at the moment of impact.
In a similar fashion, large
quantities of cosmic dust
and gas injected
into the solar system
during a superwave passage
and subsequently drawn
onto the surface
of the sun would
have caused the sun to warm up.
The cosmic dust cocoons
surrounding the sun
would also have contributed to
increasing the sun's surface
temperature by intercepting
a portion of the sun's
outgoing energy flux
and reflecting it
back on to the sun's surface.
Both of these effects
together would have caused
the sun's solar flare intensity
to increase up to 1,000-fold
during a superwave event.
Cosmic dust and gas that was
pushed into the solar system
by a passing superwave
would have caused the sun
to behave as a T Tauri star.
T Tauri stars are stars that
are observed to be surrounded
by a thick cloud of
interstellar gas and dust
that causes them to
become highly luminous,
to engage in continual
coronal flare activity,
and to become strong
emitters of cosmic rays.
In the case of the sun,
whereas solar flares today
recur anywhere from one
to 10 times per year,
during a superwave event,
they would have been occurring
so frequently that
they would have
been almost continuously present
over the surface of the sun.
During this time, the sun's
luminosity would have increased
up to several percent.
The interstellar dust choking
the solar system, together
with this increased
luminosity, would've
produced a major warming
of the earth's climate.
Tropical regions would
have become unbearably hot,
whereas high latitude
regions would have
been plagued by floods issuing
from the rapidly melting ice
sheets.
JOHANA LAMBERT: In
the legends which
speak of a vast
conflagration, the Ipurinas,
a tribe of northwestern Brazil,
relate that long ago, the earth
was overwhelmed by a hot flood.
This occurred when the sun,
personified as a cauldron
of boiling water, tipped over.
The Australian Aborigines have
a similar myth about an old man
who opened the door of the sun
and caused a stream of fire
to pour down upon mankind.
The Eskimos claim that the
waters of the Arctic Ocean
became so hot that they
finally evaporated.
According to the
Druids, the great god
punished mankind for
his universal wickedness
by sending a virulent
poison on the earth
by means of a violent wind.
John Major Jenkins
is a researcher
and scholar on the history of
the Mayan Indians of Mexico.
He has successfully proven in
his book, "Maya Cosmogenesis
2012," that they were aware
of the center of the galaxy
and of its importance
in Earth's history.
I looked into the Maya
mythology, the Popol Vuh,
the Hero Twin myth, and
I was able to identify
certain astronomical
features that
seemed to be important to the
ancient Maya, one of which
is the Maya sacred tree.
And following some clues by
Maya scholars in decoding
the Maya writing,
the Maya sacred tree
is the crossing point formed by
the Milky Way and the ecliptic.
Now this was very
interesting to me,
because looking
at star charts, I
noticed that this crossing point
in Sagittarius-Scorpio region
is exactly where the
galactic center is located.
So I started to think
that the galactic center
might be something that
the Maya were aware of.
One question that,
of course, came up
is, how could the Maya be
aware of the galactic center?
I mean, we tend to assume
that this is something that
was discovered fairly recently
by science with radio astronomy
and so on.
But when we imagine
looking at the Milky Way
arching across the sky, our
Milky Way is saucer-shaped,
and, in fact, there's a
very bright and wide area
of the Milky Way in the
region of Sagittarius.
And so I concluded by
looking at the Milky Way
with just the naked
eye alone, one
could pretty easily determine
that this was an important part
of the Milky Way.
In fact, given that the Maya
mythologized the Milky Way
as the great cosmic
mother, it would
seem a pretty
straightforward step
to take that to the next level
and see that they were looking
at the galactic
center as the womb
or the creation
place of the sky,
because that's pretty
much what it looks like.
It's very bright and very wide.
It's called the nuclear bulge.
Astrophysicists recognize that
this is the area of the Milky
Way out of which
everything in our galaxy,
including us, has come.
Moon rocks harbor
considerable evidence
indicating that the
sun was particularly
active during the last ice age.
The moon has no atmosphere.
As a result, cosmic
micrometeorites--
these are dust particles that
are traveling very rapidly--
along with solar
flare cosmic rays
are able to reach the
moon's surface unimpeded
and etch permanent
records of their arrival
in the lunar rocks.
A number of these rocks
were collected on the Apollo
missions and brought back
for storage at the Johnson
Space Center Repository.
Careful microscope
studies of the rocks
revealed that their
surfaces were literally
covered with tiny
micrometeorite craters whose
glassy surfaces were finely
etched with solar flare
particle tracks.
By studying these craters
in their cosmic ray tracks,
NASA scientist Herbert
Zook and his colleagues
were able to construct a record
of solar activity dating back
over the past 16,000 years.
Surprisingly, what they
found was in the earliest
part of this record,
the solar flare tracks
were accumulating 50 times
faster than they are today.
This dropped about five-fold
by 11,000 years ago,
the time the ice
age came to a close.
JOHANA LAMBERT: NASA scientist
physicist Herbert Zook and two
of his colleagues
were able to construct
a record of solar flare
activity dating back
over the past 16,000 years.
What they found adds
further credence
to LaViolette's theories.
HERBERT ZOOK: One
of the first things
that scientists did when
they got to the moon
was look for evidence of solar
activity changes in the past.
And so they measured
radioactive nuclei.
They were created in lunar
rocks from the solar protons,
high energy protons, and solar
cosmic rays, solar flares,
and eruptive prominences.
And they were
rather disappointed
to find that from
the aluminum 26
and manganese 53 long
half life data averaging
over a million years
that the activity looked
about like it does at present.
It didn't seem like
solar cosmic ray activity
was changing very much.
But there was some carbon-14
data that indicated,
yeah carbon-14 is kind of high.
It has a short history of
several thousand years.
It looks like over the last
10,000 to 20,000 years,
maybe something did
happen that was increased.
The solar cosmic rays, the heavy
ions in the solar cosmic rays,
also create damage
tracks in lunar rocks.
These accumulate with time.
So the longer rock has been
exposed on the surface,
the more damage tracks it
has, and we can actually
etch these measure,
the density of them,
tell how long that
rock has been there,
but you need
another chronometer.
You need something else
to measure time with,
and so what I did was use
meteorite impact craters
as a measurement of time.
I also looked personally
at spacecraft windows that
were returned from space and
counted the impact of craters
on there.
And you had various
kinds of divots
on these windows that were
caused by polishing or stuff
like that, but
meteorite impact craters
had these nice melt line
pits from the hypervelocity
of impact that actually
remelted the glass.
And I got a cratering
rate from that,
and the neat thing
about the window glass
from the spacecraft is
that those pits look very
much like pits on mineral
rocks, so the comparison
could be done very easily.
My conclusion is that
there's rather good evidence
that the sun was more active,
possibly much more active,
10,000 to 20,000 years ago.
Indeed, the increased
solar radiation flux
associated with this elevated
solar cosmic ray activity
would have been
sufficient to cause
the melting of the ice sheets.
In graphing their
solar flare intensity,
the NASA researchers
made the assumption
that micrometeorite cratering
on the moon's surface
has remained constant for
the past 16,000 years.
However, if cosmic dust was
coming into the solar system
in large amounts at
the end of the ice age,
this would have caused this
peak of solar cosmic reactivity
to move to a more recent
date and increase in height.
Most likely, it would've
peaked between 14,000
to 15,000 years ago, which
coincides with a time when
the earth's climate
globally was unusually warm,
and the ice sheets were
receding at the all time high.
Well, a prolonged period of
cosmic dust and gas inflow
would have explained the
sun's increased luminosity
and flaring, and we could
imagine that as this dust was
coming in, the sun's
activity was continually
building up as this dust
was falling at the sun,
energizing the sun.
The corona was becoming
more and more active,
and these coronal mass ejections
were happening now continuously
and throwing off
the balls of plasma
far larger than we see today.
In a matter of days, as it raced
towards the Earth and moon,
this bubble of hot
coronal gas and plasma
would have expanded to
form a dome-shaped front
tens of millions of
miles in diameter.
Upon arriving, this
sphere of hot fiery plasma
would've temporarily engulfed
the Earth and moon, producing
temperatures hot enough
to melt dust particles
on the surfaces of lunar rocks.
It also would have
severely disturbed
the earth's geomagnetic fields.
In fact, paleomagnetic
studies have
shown that at about that
time 14,200 years ago,
the Earth's magnetic
pole flipped
to an equatorial location,
and throughout this period,
the magnetic field was
severely disturbed.
This would've been caused
by the solar flare particles
getting trapped in
the radiation belts
and producing a magnetic field
opposed to the Earth's field.
JOHANA LAMBERT:
Like the moon, Earth
also preserves a record of
rapid heating of its surface.
Some of these
records are the myths
that are held by people from
all cultures on the planet.
The time from 1.8 million
years ago up to about 9,600
BC when the last ice age ended
is referred to by geologists
as the Pleistocene Period.
A study of the fossil record
reveals that at no time
during the entire Pleistocene
did animal extinction
proceed at a more rapid
pace than at the close
of the last ice age.
Between 13,000 and 16,000 years
ago, at least 57 land mammals
became extinct.
PAUL LAVIOLETTE: The anomalous
nature of this episode
is apparent in this graph, which
plots the rate of disappearance
of large land mammals from
North America over the past two
million years.
The rate of disappearance
for small mammals,
although not quite as large,
was still quite significant.
If this graph can be taken
as an indicator of the loss
of human life, we can imagine
the suffering the human race is
going through at that time
not just over a few years,
but over many generations.
This unrivaled extinction
episode occurred at a time
when the ice sheets were
discharging melt water
at an unusually high rate.
Climate profiles show that
the Earth's climate was
unusually warm at this time.
Both occurred at a time when the
sun was putting out cosmic rays
at an unusual high rate.
These correlations suggest that
the mass extinction at the end
of the Pleistocene was due to
a natural hazard associated
with a solar conflagration
and accompanying
glacial melt water floods.
In fact, if you study
the fossil remains,
you find that the rise
of extinction rate
paralleled the rise
of melt water output
from the North
American ice sheet.
In fact, paleontologists
failed to find
any extinct species surviving
past about 13,000 years ago.
North America had the
largest glacial ice sheet,
and studies have shown
that the cataclysm
was most severe there.
Some 95% of the
mammals became extinct.
So what caused this
mass extinction?
The evidence from
geology and mythology
lead us to believe
that the extreme heat
of a solar
conflagration combined
with floods of
unprecedented proportions
were the principal cause.
These high velocity
waves would not only
have drowned the mammals,
but would've destroyed
their food supply as well.
Larger animals would have been
at a distinct disadvantage,
since they would have
required greater amounts
of biomass for their survival.
And since they take longer
for their population
to increase in size,
the fuel-grazing mammals
that survived this cataclysm
would've either starved
to death or become rapidly
exterminated by their predators
or by humans searching for food.
As we can see today, ponds and
lakes on a glacier surface,
as well as caverns
within the glacier,
store large quantities
of melt water.
From time to time, these can
suddenly release their contents
and produce
potentially destructive
floods called glacier bursts.
Both large and small animal
remains have been found
in these permafrost silts.
Examples of large animals
would be saber-toothed
tiger, ground sloth, mammoth,
small animals like beaver,
squirrel.
It's generally agreed that
these animals died of asphyxia
as would occur in drowning.
It appears that
the same agent that
created the Alaskan
deposits also
operated all across
northern Siberia
to form what's called
the Mammoth Horizon.
Here they found
thousands of mammoths
and rhinoceros preserved
in these permafrost silts.
It seems that whatever
killed these animals
caught them unaware.
Some people have suggested
it was ice, that they broke
through the ice,
and at the time,
they were showing their food,
and they were suddenly frozen.
To explain whole fields
full of bones like this,
it just becomes absurd.
When you have
catastrophic deposition,
the heavy materials
settle first,
and then the lighter things.
And again, here, they found
the rocks, heavy rocks
and the bones on the bottom.
As they go up, they get to
the finer sands and silts,
and that's where they find
a lot of the soft tissues.
So this indicates deposition
by action of water,
but violent action.
This is not just over acres.
Were talking about
whole countries
are covered with this.
I mean, the only reason you
see it frozen in Alaska,
the only reason you
find the soft parts
along with the bones in Alaska
is because the climate has
preserved them.
The idea that occurs to me is
that this catastrophe occurred
at a time when the
climate was quite warm,
and actually,
there were probably
mass migrations towards
the high latitude regions
to get away from the heat.
And actually, it made
matters worse for them,
because then they got
it from the ice sheet
with these glacier waves.
And if you had one of
these solar conflagrations
occur at that time, you could
imagine the animals grazing
in this region, because
it was warmer than normal,
so there was quite a
lot of vegetation there.
And they would be eating
the grass or whatever
and not knowing that
thousands of kilometers away,
dams on the ice
sheet had broken,
and water was coursing
down the ice sheet,
gaining in momentum and energy.
Imagine a mountain's
wave 500 feet high,
1,000 kilometers long, perhaps,
traveling down the ice sheet.
And these animals
wouldn't be aware of it
until the thing had
left the ice sheet
and was thundering
across the plains.
And what could they do?
JOHANA LAMBERT: As many as
two superwaves may already
have left the galactic
center and be speeding
toward our solar system,
but there is no way
that we can see them coming.
Since a superwave
travels outward
from the galactic center
at the speed of light,
the radiation signaling
its initial emergence
from the galactic core
would arrive only minutes
ahead of its cosmic rays.
Once it arrives, a
superwave's presence
becomes quite a noticeable
phenomenon in the heavens
due to the light it
beams towards us.
I've suggested it's
possible to set up a shield
using advanced technology.
This would require technology
beyond what is allowed to be
in the unclassified world.
Now this is technology that's
so far advanced that it's
kept classified,
and there's evidence
that we have this because of
tests that have been going on.
I believe it's possible
to use this technology
in a much larger scale.
This would require a project
that would dwarf the Apollo
project, the Manhattan Project,
and all our black projects put
together.
We're talking about something
where we'd probably establish
field transmitters
on several planets
in the solar system that
were able to set up an energy
shield outside the solar system
towards the galactic center
side that would
be able to deflect
cosmic rays around
our solar system
before they were able to
reach our solar system.
In this way, by deflecting
the cosmic rays,
it's just a very slight
angle just a few degrees.
If you can get the
shield out far enough,
you just deflect those
cosmic rays by a few degrees,
and you've been able to stop
being able to prevent them
from pushing cosmic dust
into the solar system,
because once the cosmic dust is
pushed into the solar system,
you get this whole
chain of events begun.
NARRATOR: Many cultures,
mythologies, and people
from all around
the planet believe
that life in our universe
moves in great cycles.
Some refer to these
cycles as ages or worlds.
These myths tell us of a
golden age, a silver age,
a bronze, and an iron age.
The last age is called the
Kali Yuga by the Hindus,
and they believe that it is
the age that we are in now.
Myths reveal that
the Iron Age is
the most difficult age of all.
Man grows dark with his
technology and power,
but even this age
will come to an end.
If the myths and legends of
our own past are correct,
a new golden age will
rise out of this age.
Possibly, the Earth itself
is transformed by the fire
from the center of our galaxy,
and the ashes from this fire
will be the seeds for
the world to come.
This is the promise
of the golden age.
The cycles of time
are like the weather,
and as the seasons
of the galaxy pass,
everything must learn to
adjust to these changes.
As surely as fall
turns to winter,
so too will these
larger cycles turn.
All of nature is dependent
upon the cycle of life, death,
and rebirth, for
this is the greatest
mystery of the universe.
JOHANA LAMBERT: The
mysteries of the past
and how our ancient
fathers and mothers viewed
the universe around
them are only
now coming to light with the
work of Dr. Paul LaViolette.
However, there are other
researchers also currently
making discoveries that not only
confirm Dr. LaViolette's work,
but open the promise that
our ancestors knew far more
about the universe
and the cosmos
than modern minds
have ever dreamed.
I'm Johana Lambert, and
thank you for watching
"Earth Under Fire."
[MUSIC PLAYING]